.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Ganaël LAPLANCHE
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Ganael Laplanche
.\" ganael.laplanche@martymac.org
.\" http://contribs.martymac.org
.\"
.TH ldapscripts 5 "January 1, 2006"

.SH NAME
ldapscripts \- Scripts to manage POSIX accounts in your LDAP directory.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldapscripts are a set of shell (sh) scripts designed to manage POSIX accounts in an OpenLDAP directory. They can be used as standalone tools or within Samba 3.x's smb.conf file. 

.SH REQUIREMENTS
The main requirements are the OpenLDAP client tools (ldapadd, ldapsearch, ldapdelete, ...). Other commands are called in the scripts but should come with your OS (sed, grep, cut, ...).

.SH CONFIGURATION
The main configuration of the ldapscripts is usually the file /etc/ldapscripts/ldapscripts.conf (or /usr/local/etc/ldapscripts/ldapscripts.conf, depending on your system). Modify it to fit your needs before using the scripts. Each script also uses a "runtime" file, usually /usr/lib/ldapscripts/runtime (or /usr/local/lib/ldapscripts/runtime). You don't need to modify this file.

.SH TEMPLATES
Each script that adds information to the directory uses a template. Templates are directly embedded at the end of the scripts but it is also possible to use external template files (see GTEMPLATE, UTEMPLATE and MTEMPLATE variables in the configuration file). Each template consists of a preformatted LDIF file using special keywords that will be replaced on-the-fly. Sample files are provided for your convenience : ldapaddgroup.template.sample, ldapadduser.template.sample and ldapaddmachine.template.sample. It is strongly advised to use those files instead of modifying the embedded (default) templates in the scripts.

Sample templates include every keyword you can use. One special additional keyword is the <ask> keyword that will trigger user input to get the attribute value interactively.

.SH "USING AS STANDALONE TOOLS"
Each script can be used as a standard command-line tool. Check their man pages to get help.

.SH "USING WITH SAMBA 3.x"
Each Samba 3.x smb.conf "xxx script" option has a matching script. Modify you smb.conf file this way to call them :

.nf
# [...]
add machine script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapaddmachine '%u' sambamachines
add user script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapadduser '%u' sambausers
add group script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapaddgroup '%g'
add user to group script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapaddusertogroup '%u' '%g'
delete user script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapdeleteuser '%u'
delete group script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapdeletegroup '%g'
delete user from group script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapdeleteuserfromgroup '%u' '%g'
set primary group script = /usr/local/sbin/ldapsetprimarygroup '%u' '%g'
rename user script = /usr/local/sbin/ldaprenameuser '%uold' '%unew'
# [...]

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ldapdeletemachine(1), ldapmodifymachine(1), ldaprenamemachine(1), ldapadduser(1), ldapdeleteuserfromgroup(1),
ldapfinger(1), ldapid(1), ldapmodifyuser(1), lsldap(1), ldapaddusertogroup(1), ldaprenameuser(1), ldapinit(1),
ldapsetpasswd(1), ldapaddgroup(1), ldapdeletegroup(1), ldapsetprimarygroup(1), ldapmodifygroup(1), ldaprenamegroup(1),
ldapaddmachine(1), ldapdeleteuser(1).

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ldapscripts are provided under the GNU General Public License v2 (see COPYING for more details).
The latest version of the ldapscripts is available on :
.B http://contribs.martymac.org

.SH BUGS
Sometimes, that kind of message may appear in the log file :
.B "Additional information: value does not conform to assertion syntax".
Setting slapd's debug level to 32 shows additional details :
.B "get_ava: illegal value for attributeType uidNumber".
This is *not* a bug : the ldapscripts tend to use the power of LDAP filters to easily find users (or groups) using either a uidNumber (numerical value) or a uid (string value). The following filter (used by ldapfinger(1)) will generate the above message if $_USER is a login : "(|(&(objectClass=posixAccount)(|(uid=$_USER)(uidNumber=$_USER)))(&(objectClass=posixGroup)(|(cn=$_USER)(gidNumber=$_USER))))" because filter part "(uidNumber=$_USER)" requires an integer but gets a string. You can mostly ignore those warnings.
