.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Ganaël LAPLANCHE
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Ganael Laplanche
.\" ganael.laplanche@martymac.org
.\" http://contribs.martymac.org
.\"
.TH ldapsetprimarygroup 1 "January 1, 2006"

.SH NAME
ldapsetprimarygroup \- modifies the gidNumber of a POSIX user or machine account in LDAP (sets a user's primary group in LDAP).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapsetprimarygroup
.RB <username | uid>
.RB <groupname | gid>
 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <username | uid>
The name or uid of the user to modify.
.TP
.B <groupname | gid>
The new primary group name or gid of the specified user.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ldapaddusertogroup(1), ldapdeleteuserfromgroup(1), ldapscripts(5).

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ldapscripts are provided under the GNU General Public License v2 (see COPYING for more details).
The latest version of the ldapscripts is available on :
.B http://contribs.martymac.org

.SH BUGS
No bug known.
