.\" Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Ganaël LAPLANCHE
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Ganael Laplanche
.\" ganael.laplanche@martymac.org
.\" http://contribs.martymac.org
.\"
.TH ldapmodifyuser 1 "August 22, 2007"

.SH NAME
ldapmodifyuser \- modifies a POSIX user account in LDAP interactively

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodifyuser
.RB <username | uid>
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
ldapmodifyuser first looks for the right entry to modify. Once found, the entry is presented and you
are prompted to enter LDIF data to modify it as you would do using a standard LDIF file and ldapmodify(1).
The DN of the entry being modified is already specified : just begin with a changeType attribute or any
other one(s) of your choice (in this case, the defaut changeType is 'modify').

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <username | uid>
The name or uid of the user to modify.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ldapmodifygroup(1), ldapmodifymachine(1), ldapscripts(5).

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ldapscripts are provided under the GNU General Public License v2 (see COPYING for more details).
The latest version of the ldapscripts is available on :
.B http://contribs.martymac.org

.SH BUGS
No bug known.
