.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Ganaël LAPLANCHE
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Ganael Laplanche
.\" ganael.laplanche@martymac.org
.\" http://contribs.martymac.org
.\"
.TH ldapsetpasswd 1 "November 1, 2006"

.SH NAME
ldapsetpasswd \- modifies a POSIX user account's password in LDAP.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapsetpasswd
.RB <username | uid>
.RB [encoded password]
 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <username | uid>
The name or uid of the user whose password has to be modified.
.TP
.B [encoded password]
If specified this way, the password will be copied verbatim into the LDAP directory. If not specified, you will 
be prompted for a password that will be changed using the ldappasswd(1) command.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ldapfinger(1), ldapid(1), ldapgid(1), ldapscripts(5).

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ldapscripts are provided under the GNU General Public License v2 (see COPYING for more details).
The latest version of the ldapscripts is available on :
.B http://contribs.martymac.org

.SH LIMITATIONS
When used interactively, passwords generated with this command are propagated with the ldappasswd(1) command.
Thus, the resulting format depends on the 'password-hash' option of your server's slapd.conf(5) file.

You can always force an encoded password (using the hash format of your choice) by specifying it on the command line.

.SH BUGS
No bug known.
